## Table of Contents

1. [Introduction](#introduction)
2. [Getting Started](#getting-started)
3. [Folder Structure](#folder-structure)
4. [Components and UI Elements](#components-and-ui-elements)
5. [Styling and Theming](#styling-and-theming)
6. [State Management](#state-management)
7. [Routing and Navigation](#routing-and-navigation)
8. [API Integration](#api-integration)
9. [User Authentication](#user-authentication)
10. [UI/UX Considerations](#uiux-considerations)
11. [Deployment](#deployment)
12. [Troubleshooting and Debugging](#troubleshooting-and-debugging)
13. [Additional Resources](#additional-resources)

## Introduction

Welcome to the frontend documentation for Sc2reporter! This section offers an overview of our frontend, highlighting its features, functionality, and technologies.

### Overview

Our frontend is the user interface of Sc2reporter, connecting users with the application's core features. It's designed for a seamless, engaging, and responsive user experience.

### Key Features

- Samples Page
- Sample Page
- Pangolin Page
- Nextclade page
- Variant page
- Dashboard page
- Users page

### Technologies

- **React:** Building dynamic interfaces efficiently.
- **React Router:** Seamless navigation and URL management.
- **TypeScript:** A typed superset of JavaScript that enhances code quality and maintainability.
- **Axios:** A popular HTTP client for making API requests and handling responses.
- **Ant Design (antd):** A comprehensive UI library for modern web applications.
- **Ant Design Charts:** An extension of Ant Design providing a wide range of charts for data visualization.
- **MSW (Mock Service Worker):** Simulating API responses for efficient frontend development and testing.

These technologies ensure a fast, reliable, and feature-rich frontend.


## Getting Started

  

To launch the application using mock data, ensure you have Docker Compose installed on your system. Follow these steps for a more advanced setup:

  

1.  **Clone the Repository:**

```

git clone https://github.com/genomic-medicine-sweden/docker-sc2reporter

```

  

2.  **Navigate to Project Directory:**

Move into the cloned repository's directory:

```

cd docker-sc2reporter

```

  

3.  **Start Application:**

Use Docker Compose to launch the application with the provided demo configuration:

  

```

docker-compose -f docker-compose.demo.yml up

```

  

After the application is up and running, you can access the following components:

  

- Front-end: [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000)

- Back-end: [http://localhost:8000](http://localhost:8000)

## Folder Structure


## Folder Structure

  

-  **`frontend/`**: Contains the frontend react application.

  

	-  **`node_modules/`**: Stores the dependencies installed via npm or Yarn.

	  

	-  **`public/`**: This directory contains assets that will be publicly accessible.

	  

	-  **`src/`**: This directory contains the source code of the React application.

	  

		-  **`components/`**: Contains reusable UI components used throughout the app.

		  

		-  **`mocks/`**: Stores mock data.

		  

		-  **`pages/`**: Contains top-level components that represent individual pages of the app.

		  

		-  **`services/`**: Handles API requests and data fetching.

		  

		-  **`App.module.css`**: Styles specific to the App component.

		  

		-  **`App.tsx`**: Main entry point for the React application.

		  

		-  **`helpers.ts`**: Utility functions or helper modules used across the app.

		  

		-  **`index.css`**: Global CSS styles.

		  

		-  **`index.tsx`**: Entry point for rendering the React app.

		  

	-  **`.dockerignore`**: Specifies files and directories to be ignored by Docker during image building.

	  

	-  **`.eslintignore`**: Specifies files and directories to be ignored by ESLint during linting.

	  

	-  **`.eslintrc.json`**: Configuration file for ESLint, specifying linting rules and options.

	  

	-  **`.gitignore`**: Specifies files and directories to be ignored by Git.

	  

	-  **`.prettierrc.json`**: Configuration file for Prettier, specifying code formatting rules and options.

	  

	-  **`.stylelintrc.json`**: Configuration file for Stylelint, specifying CSS linting rules and options.

	  

	-  **`Dockerfile`**: Configuration file for building a Docker image of the application.

	  

	-  **`firebase.json`**: Configuration file for Firebase hosting and pull requests deployment.

	  

	-  **`package.json`**: Contains metadata about the project and its dependencies.

	  

	-  **`README.md`**: The main documentation file that provides an overview of the project.

	  

	-  **`tsconfig.json`**: Configuration file for TypeScript, specifying compiler options and settings.

	  

	-  **`yarn.lock`**: Lock file generated by Yarn to ensure consistent dependencies across environments.


## Components and UI Elements

- Component Library Overview
- List of Reusable Components
- Props and Usage for Each Component

## Styling and Theming

- CSS-in-JS Libraries Used
- Styling Approaches (e.g., Styled Components, CSS Modules)
- How to Apply Styles to Components
- Theming and Customization Options

## State Management

- State Handling in the Frontend
- Integration with State Management Libraries (e.g., Redux, Context API)
- Example of Managing State in Components

## Routing and Navigation

- Setting Up Routes
- Navigation Between Pages
- Route Guards and Redirects

## API Integration

- How Frontend Communicates with Backend APIs
- Handling API Requests and Responses
- Example Code for API Calls

## User Authentication

- Authentication Flow and Components
- Handling User Login and Registration
- Securing Routes based on Authentication

## UI/UX Considerations

    - Design Principles and Guidelines
    - User Interaction Patterns
    - Responsive Design and Mobile Compatibility

## Deployment

    - Preparing Frontend for Production Build
    - Deploying the Frontend to Hosting Platforms
    - Integration with Backend Deployment

## Troubleshooting and Debugging

    - Common Frontend Issues and Solutions
    - Browser Developer Tools for Debugging

## Additional Resources

    - Links to UI/UX Guidelines
    - References for Styling and CSS-in-JS
    - Recommended Reading for Frontend Development

# Prefix URL Configuration

The prefix URL in this project is controlled by the environment variable \`REACT_APP_PREFIX_URL\`. By default, it is set to \`/\` to prevent any potential interference with Firebase hosting actions. When the project is run in production, the \`REACT_APP_PREFIX_URL\` variable can be configured with a different value as needed.
